---
layout: post
title:  "Blogging - again"
date:   2025-05-02 10:54:00 +0800
categories: jekyll update
---

What can we write in GitHub Pages?
In the document Quickstart for GitHub Pages, we have the answer:

> You can use GitHub Pages to showcase some open source projects,
> host a blog, or even share your resume.

Yes, we could use GitHub Pages as blog. That is great - especially
considering the fact that for some reason - probably due to
the national firewall -
I could not connect to neither Blogspot and Wordpress.

Link to the document:
[https://docs.github.com/en/pages/quickstart](https://docs.github.com/en/pages/quickstart)

But why should we write blogs?
Firstly,
for fun.
Secondly,
blogs could help people know and understand me better,
 and might
at the same time provide me with more opportunites and/or trust. What's more,
I myself have benefited a lot from the blogs written by other people - for
many years, from the beginning - when I firstly studied DOS commands and coding
in C.
By writing blogs myself, maybe I would help then other people - that's great,
isn't it? Helping other people should be great.

Also: practice English writing. We often talk about 'practice writing',
but I found that the important part is editing. Editing. Many edits.

I write in English, so I could practice English writing. But I guess it's
not very much about the language. Writing might be a 'universal' skill, which
does not confine to one certain language.

It occured to me that when I wrote blogs before, I don't know how to
manage the size of one article. The result is that, I wrote lots of really
tiny 'articles' - or, should we use the term 'snippet'? - no, 'snippet'
is even longer - maybe 'cards'
should be the right word.

What I also did before is to edit Markdown texts in-line - in every line -
which produces git-diff results that are more difficult to read. This time
I find it great to minimise the git-diff results - since, anyway, the
target view would be the brew'd HTML, not the Markdown source text.

The posts are put in the `_posts` directory.
They would automatically update if we use 
`jekyll serve`, which launches a web server and auto-regenerates the site 
when a file is updated.

Jekyll requires blog post files to be named according to the following format:

`YEAR-MONTH-DAY-title.MARKUP`

Where `YEAR` is a four-digit number,
 `MONTH` and `DAY` are both two-digit numbers,
 and `MARKUP` is the file extension representing the format used in the file.
 After that, include the necessary front matter.
It would be easier to just grab a existing source and take a look at the
format.

Code snippets syntax test:

{% highlight ruby %}
def print_hi(name)
  puts "Hi, #{name}"
end
print_hi('Tom')
#=> prints 'Hi, Tom' to STDOUT.
{% endhighlight %}

Doc: [Jekyll docs][jekyll-docs].
 All bugs/feature requests shall be uploaded to
[Jekyll’s GitHub repo][jekyll-gh].
 Questions can be asked on [Jekyll Talk][jekyll-talk].

[jekyll-docs]: https://jekyllrb.com/docs/home
[jekyll-gh]:   https://github.com/jekyll/jekyll
[jekyll-talk]: https://talk.jekyllrb.com/
